Walsh Generator Operation:

Wal Generator operation.

During power on, J-K Flip Flop U16A is preset by U14, pin 6 (output Q) of U16A which is connected to pin 14 (input J) and pin 13 (input ~K) of U16B get Hi. Then positive transition of the clock SYNC CK (409.6 KHz) will cause U16B pin 10 changing state from Lo to Hi. As a result, a Hi to Lo short pulse is generated through circuitry (U11C, U15D, U18), which will reset the J-K Flip Flop U17A.

After U17A get reset, pin 6 (Q output) of U17A which is connected to the pin 2 (input J) of U16A goes Lo. Since both input J and K of U16A are Lo, pin 6 (output Q) of U16A will not change state and keep Hi, no matter what is the status of 1PPS clock pulse.
On the other hand, a Hi at pin 10 (output Q) of U16B will allow SYNC CK (409.6 KHz) to be the clock source for Synchronous Binary Counter U5, U9, U13 through  NAND gate U15B or U15C. Counter starts to count and there is no synchronous to 1PPS.

When reset button is press, a negative short pulse which is generated through R5, R6,C3 will preset J-K Flip Flop U17A, then Pin 6 (output Q) of U17A changes from Lo to Hi, this change will generate another negative short pulse through U11B, U12, U15A to reset J-K Flip Flop U16A, U16B and Synchronous Binary Counter U5, U9, U13.

After reset, pin 6 (output Q) of U16A goes Lo, pin 2 (input J) of U16A goes Hi, and pin 3 (input ~K) of U16A stays Hi, any positive transition of 1PPS will cause pin 6 (output Q) of U16A changed state from Lo to Hi. Then positive transition of the clock SYNC CK (409.6 KHz) will cause U16B pin 10 changing state to Hi. Once U16B pin 10 is Hi, SYNC CK (409.6 KHz) will be clock source for Synchronous Binary Counter U5, U9, U13 and start to count with positive transition of SYNC CK (409.6 KHz). 

Since 1PPS clock get in first to turn Synchronous Binary Counter U5, U9, U13 clock source on, and then counter starts to count. There is synchronous to 1PPS. 

It is noted that the counter is only synchronous to first cycle of 1PPS. After that, J-K Flip Flop U17A get reset from negative short pulse which is generated through circuitry (U11C, U15D, U18), pin 6 (Q output) of U17A goes Lo, pin 6 (output Q) of U16A will not change state and keep Hi, no matter what is the status of 1PPS clock pulse.

The power on reset is generated through J-K Flip Flop U17B. When power is on, U17B is clear by U14, pin 9 of U17B (output ~Q) goes Hi, pin 14 of U17B (input J) is connected to pin 3 of U19 (timer LM555) which is output of a Monostable mode operation. Any negative pulse input to trigger pin (pin 2 of U19) will generate a pulse with pulse width about 242 ms (t=1.1xR16xC4) at pin 3 of U19. In the mean time, pin12 of U17B (CLK2) is connected to pin 15 (Ripple carry TC) of Synchronous Binary Counter U5, it will go to Hi whenever all pin 11, 12, 13, 14 (QA, QB, QC, QD) are Hi, and will occur every 3.9ms (409.6 KHz/16). 

Since pin 13 (~K) of U17B is connected to +5V, input K is Lo all the time. The state of output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) is based on input J (pin 14 of U17B) only. After power on, if input J (pin 14 of U17B) is Lo at positive transition of CLK2 (pin12 of U17B), output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) does not change the state and keeps at Hi, once input J (pin 14 of U17B) is Hi at positive transition of CLK2 (pin12 of U17B), output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) changes the state from Hi to Lo, then generates a negative pulse at pin 5 of U17 through C40 (0.1UF) to preset J-K Flip Flop U17A, operation is same as reset by press reset button. 

After output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) goes Lo, any positive transition of CLK2 (pin12 of U17B) will not affect the state of output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) any more, it will keep Lo all the time for the reasons as follows:
 *In the case input J (pin 14 of U17B) is Lo at positive transition of CLK2 (pin12 of U17B), output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) does not change the state and keeps at Lo.
 *In the case input J (pin 14 of U17B) is Hi at positive transition of CLK2 (pin12 of U17B), output ~Q (pin 9 of U17B) would be Lo.

However, power on reset circuitry is generated by assuming both SYNC CLK (409.6 KHz) and 1PPS are existed. It will not work, if either one is missing during power on.

3-pin jumper J4 is used to select the rising edge or falling edge of 1PPS to clock in J-K Flip Flop U16A. It is connected to pin1 of U7A by default.
3-pin jumper J8 is used to select the rising edge or falling edge of 1PPS to trigger the timer U19. It is connected to pin2 of U7A by default.
3-pin jumper J9 and J10 are used to select the rising edge or falling edge of SYS CLK (409.6 KHz) to clock in Synchronous Binary Counter U5, U9, U13. 
For J10, it is connected to pin2 of U11A by default.
For J9, It is connected to pin 8 of U15C by default.
